Rowboat Phenomenology is a concept articulated by Asa Sakrison in their essay of the same name in the Slow Spatial Reader collection. Described as “…both an experiment and a praxis”,  the phenomenology seeks to put ones subjective, individual experiences as not only a valuable framework from which to observe the external environment, but also a crucial launching point from which environmental, as well as internal, change can develop. 

Sakrison draws on the work of Alfred North Whitehead, drawing Rowboat Phenomenology into the lineage of Whitehead’s Process Philosophy, which lays the experience of change as the only basis upon which a conception of “reality” can be created. These ideas run in opposition to classical theories of ontology, which grounded themselves in the supposition that matter, and therefore life and experience, is largely stable and unchanging, with discrepencies written off as largely blips in a long, stable continuum. 

Through this phenomenology, Sakrison advocates moving and relating our bodies with the environment in new ways, “…to have new experiences with and thoughts about the non-human…to insert the body into new sets of relations in a way that allows them to linger and thereby shape me.” 

Sakrison draws on their experience setting off by Rowboat down the West-Washington Hood Canal, a water body whom they are intimately familiar with from their upbringing nearby. In these travails, Sakrison allowed their boat to drift of its own volition down the canal, bumping, slowing and speeding up at it’s own will, at one with the water and it’s rocky bed’s interference and interplay.

To let the world move us, move into us, draws Sakrison to contrast this experience with the usual ways we are encouraged to move and thereby interact with our surrounding environ: quickly, distantly and prohibitively. Often, Sakrison says, this fashion of movement is a protective mechanism that aids the marginalized in controlling their interactions with societies and systems that want them dead and invisible. But these incentivized movements and reactions are constructions, ultimately, not the responses of agents interacting with autonomy but those “...dictated by society or comfort or convention or fear…limit[ing] our interaction with and understanding of the non-human (and human)